All right in this lecture I'm going to teach you how to break down the human form into simple geometric
shapes that you can then replicate to draw a human body in any pose that you like.
So let's go ahead and get started so I'm here in Photoshop because this is the easiest place for me
to draw.
On top of my image for you.
So I usually like to break down the head into a simple circle so I can go ahead and draw a circle over
that.
And if you wanted to you can even add an A point for it in the chin.
Next I like to go ahead and break down the chest and the pelvis area into two separate shapes.
Now depending on whether it's a male or female the shapes are going to be different.
So this is a male in this case.
And so we're going to break down the chest into a rectangular cube shape just like so.
And then the pelvis is also going to get broken down into a rectangular cube shape except this one is
actually twisting so the body is actually ingoing the bottom part of the pelvis like so that we can
go ahead and make that front face just like so.
Go ahead and add the side face to that rectangular cube and the top face.
So you can see there the bottom gets broken down into two very simple geometric three dimensional shapes.
Next let's go ahead and add in the legs.
So the legs get broken down into very simple cylinders so the cylinder starts over here and it comes
all the way to here and we can go ahead and draw that end of the cylinder and then that side of it.
Then you can go ahead and break down this bottom part of the leg or the shin and the calf into its own
separate cylinder and then we can go ahead and break the foot down into its own shape and its shape
is going to kind of be like a triangle like so.
We can go ahead and get the side.
So I'm gonna start the cylinder right there and then I'm going to come all the way to the knee.
That's where your cylinder is going to end.
You get that side also.
And then will go ahead and continue the next cylinder which will be the calf and the shin just like
so at the end to that.
And then we can add that the foot in the foot can just be a basic shape like so.
And if you wanted to you could even add a little bit of a bottom surface to that and the arms are going
to be very similar to the legs they're going to be broken down into cylinders so you can start the cylinder
right there and it will continue all the way to our elbow.
Now we can at the end of our cylinder and then we'll go ahead and do the same thing for the fore arm.
Go ahead and create a cylinder and the cylinders on the form and the shin of the leg.
They tend to taper off.
So I like to make those get smaller towards the end towards the hand and the feet can go ahead and add
in the hand.
Now you can't see it very well in this drawing so will destroy on it as best we can.
And then we'll go ahead and move on to the other arm.
So add one cylinder right there.
And in some cases you're looking straight onto the cylinder and so you're not going to see the circular
face which is what's happening in this case.
Go ahead and extend that cylinder all the way no go ahead and add in our hand.
So my hand I also like to break it up into one simple sort of rectangular cube type shape.
And then I like to add the thumb and the other fingers to that like so and then if you wanted to you
could also add an a line for the neck.
So there is a neckline.
You can also add a line for the spine and that will tell you in which way the back is turning.
All right.
Let's try a another one.
So this is a female form and female forms have a little bit different shape than men.
So rather than having squared cube blocks for the torso and the pelvis it actually is more of a cone
shapes.
I get the tips cut off.
So let me show you what I mean.
So I'd like to start off by creating a circular or oval shape here at the top for the top of my cone
shape and then that comes down into sort of a trap is void type shape but it's actually three dimensional
so it's got a round edge on it down here at the bottom.
So that's our first shape for the torso part of our body.
Now we can go ahead and do the bottom side and it's going to be the same exact shape.
It's just going to be turned upside down.
So those are top face.
And rather than being bigger on the top and some are on the bottom it's smaller on the top and bigger
on the bottom so we come down here like so and then we can go ahead and drawn that curve just like so
unless the basic shape for the main part of the female body then next what we want to do is want to
go ahead and add in the legs and the arms.
And this is going to be done exactly like we would do on a guy.
So we start with the cylinder for the legs and then we go ahead and add in the cylinder for the calf
and the shin area which tapers off as we get down to the foot and then we'll go ahead and add in the
actual foot itself which is just sort of a box type of a shape like so then we could go ahead and do
the other leg.
And since this hand is in front of it I'm going to try to steer clear of that.
We can still get this edge of the cylinder and it can come behind that hand like so go ahead and get
that top side of the cylinder.
And I leave out the kneecaps you don't really have to add that in.
It's when you're drawing final drawing you want to add in that line that comes around your kneecap.
But in this case you don't really need that.
We're just trying to figure out what the basic geometrical shapes are.
And we can go ahead and add in this bottom cylinder which will also taper off towards the foot and then
we can go ahead and add in that foot shape and the bottom of it is going to have sort of a surface like
so and just get broken down into a very simple geometrical form.
Now let's go ahead and do the arm so the arms also get broken down into a cylinder shape's.
And then I like to break the hands down into basically a rectangular cube before the main part of the
hand and then the fingers are individually drawn in there.
So add in thumb and index finger like so and then I'll go ahead and move on to the other arm.
So that gets its own cylinder and then the seam with this one
then I'll go ahead and add and the rectangular cube before the hand just like so and then I'll add and
the fingers just like so.
And then we can go ahead and sketch in a circle for the head and we can even add a chin to that and
then I can go ahead and add in my next shape which is just two lines.
And then I can add in the curved line from my spine and that line just needs to go right through the
center of these two main shapes for the body and that will show you exactly where your spine is and
also where your body is curving and turn at.
Now I want to show you a second technique that I use for drawing body forms.
So this one is a little bit simpler and you can do it much quicker I think.
And so what you do is you basically start off with your head.
So let's go ahead and draw on top of this head.
So we at our circle can add that Chinen snow we ever had.
Next you want to go ahead and break the top part of the chest up into one shape so one oval like so.
And since we're actually looking at this from a down angle sort of because he's bending over this is
going to turn into almost a perfect circle.
But if you're drawing this from a standing up straight pose this would actually be more of an oval.
So I'd be much more stretched out and then down here at the bottom you get a circle so it'll be an oval
for the chest area and a circle for the pelvis area.
So let's go ahead and add in the circle like so and then next what you want to do is you want to go
ahead and find the way your center is for your spine and then you also want to create a line for your
shoulder.
So we create a line right across the top like so.
And then this is the fun part.
This is where you get to actually draw in a lightning bolt.
So the lightning bolt starts up here and it comes down like so down this side of the arm and then right
here at the elbow.
It's going to come back up and then come out like so.
So there's your lightning ball.
This is a really quick way to define where your muscles are.
So you get the top half of your muscles and then down here you get the bottom half.
So here you get your for our muscles and up here you get your bicep and your shoulder muscle.
So now we can go ahead and finish the line on the other side.
Same with this other side just like so and then we can go ahead and just add any sort of a circle for
the hands and then you can add the fingers on top of that circle.
We can do the same thing for the other side.
So we start the lightning bolt down this side.
Then at the elbow we go ahead and come back up and then come down and that creates that lightning bolt
shape.
And now we can go ahead and add in the other side of the arm to create that muscle.
Then we add a circle and then the fingers next we can go ahead and move on to the legs so the legs are
just like the arms.
So we use light nimble shapes to draw those out and we always start with the outside edge.
So we'll go ahead and draw the outside edge like so for the outside of our Lightning Bolt.
And then at the knee we'll go ahead and bring that back up and then we'll come back down and curve it
in the opposite direction for our calf and come all the way down into our ankle like so.
So there's a quick lightning bolt shape.
And then we can go ahead and do the other side.
So we'll add in a line right there and then we'll add in the line on this side.
Now generally your legs are going to be longer than the main part of your body so keep that in mind
if they are shorter.
It's going to look a little bit funny.
But that might be what you want your character to look like.
So that's OK.
Just make sure that you know you're breaking that rule.
Now go ahead and add in the feet and so for the feet I just like to add in sort of a really quick shape
for the feet like so.
And then I'll go ahead and do the other side so start on the outside edge.
Then we come back up and then we come down and create that calf and then come down into our goal and
we'll go ahead and get the other side like so we can go ahead and drill that foot in just a very simple
shape like so great.
Now let's go ahead and move on to a final form and try the same technique.
Now this is a little bit different because we're actually drawing her from the side but it'll still
work.
So we start with the head so we add in our circle for the head.
We can add in our chin if we'd like then we can go ahead and find the Center for our back or our spine.
So we'll go ahead and draw right through like So next we want to do is we want to go ahead and find
that top oval shape for the chest area.
So we'll go ahead and draw that in like so and then we'll go ahead and draw and the bottom circle which
kind of falls right into the pelvis and also lines kind of right up with the but then we're going to
go ahead and add in the arms.
So just like we did with a guy the arms are exactly the same.
We create a lightning bolt like so then you come back.
And since her arm is bent instead of coming down like this to finish that lightning bolt the lightning
bolt just gets turned and warped a little bit.
So the lightning bolt comes like so then we'll go ahead and added the two other lines and then we can
go ahead and add in this leg right here.
So just the same we create a light bulb so light goes on the top side of the leg.
Then it comes right through there and this leg is bent also so we have come over like so so our light
and bone gets warped.
Now we can go ahead and add the other lines.
Then we can go ahead and add in the shape for the foot and then we'll go ahead and do the same thing
for the other side.
So the lightning bolt starts on this front side and I'm just going to draw right through leg just for
demonstration purposes.
So we come all the way through like so that we come back up and this leg you'll actually see the light
and pull a lot more because we're actually drawn it from a straight perspective and we can go ahead
and add the other side and add this line for the front of the shin and then we can go ahead and add
in the foot like so perfect.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and jump back in with our paper and draw some of these from scratch right soon.
Now let's go ahead and break up these drawings into their simple shape.
So now go ahead and switch this out with a blank piece of paper.
No we can go ahead and get started.
So I'm going to start with the female figure.
So if you remember the finger can be broken up into basically to trap as always or cylinder type trap
as void shapes.
So let's go out and start with the top half of it.
And so the top of it is going to actually get a straight edge on the bottom and it's going to get a
little bit of a rounded curve at the top.
We can go ahead and connect that like so and I'm looking at my reference still even though I'm drawing
out of shapes but I want to see how the lines are interacting with each other.
Next we can go ahead and do our bottom once at the bottom and we're going to see a little bit of that
top surface as this one is slanting a little bit more back than this one.
So we'll go ahead and add that in like so now I'm going to go ahead and round out the bottom just like
so then we can go ahead and add in our leagues.
So for this fight it's going to be one cylinder like so go ahead and round out that bottom and then
we'll do another solidary here for this part of the leg then go ahead and that in the foot which will
basically just be a block.
So let's go ahead and do the other one.
So go ahead and add this one in an almost straight down.
Go ahead and add in the bottom part.
Lay it all out in this foot which is also going to basically be a box and then we'll go ahead and add
in this arm so this arm is going to be one cylinder right there.
In the lab and a second cylinder and actually that cylinder is coming out a little bit too far.
My reference to arms comes straight down.
So many go ahead and add in that cylinder come straight down like so and I go ahead and around that
and I'll go ahead and do the second part.
So I had that cylinder in now and add in the hand which will basically just be a basic shape like cells
and I can go ahead and do it.
The other one.
So go ahead and drawn my cylinder for the first part of my arm and I'll draw on the second cylinder
so the second cylinder will be behind this one a little bit will come down like so then they can go
ahead and add in my hand and my hand going to break it up into one box like so and then I'll have each
one of my fingers so then I can go ahead and add in my head.
So my head is basically just going to be a sphere.
So if you wanted to you can go ahead and add in a little bit more detail a little bit more shape in
there and even at in the neck if you wanted to.
But for now that's good.
Now let's go ahead and try drawing this in my other technique.
So basically what we want to start off with is an oval for the chest area and then we want to do a second
Oval or circle for the bottom area like so then we can go ahead and add in the middle line for our spine
then that comes up into the neck and we can go ahead and add the head in like so.
Number we want to do is we want to add in those lightning bolts for the arms.
So first we want to find where that shoulder line is and then going to go ahead and add in the first
night.
Lightning bolts so it comes down like so to about there and it comes up and it comes down and we can
go ahead and fill that in further.
So and then I'll go ahead and do this one.
So the lighting ball comes out I remember it it starts on the top side of the arm.
Then it comes back in and then you get the inside of the other part of the arm the fore arm.
So that will go ahead at that and like so you can go and fill that in perfect.
Then what I want to do is I'm going to go ahead and add in my legs so the legs are the same way so I
had my lightning bolt.
And the legs tend to be longer than the main part of the body or the chest and the pelvis.
So we want to make sure that we make these legs a little bit longer when we draw this.
So there is a first leg so we can go ahead and add in a simple shape for the foot and move to the other
side also.
So we'll come straight down like some of them come up and come down like that and we can go and fill
those in and drawn our foot.
And because a little funny looking for someone to go out and fix that that's very rough.
This is just your base for the actual finished drawn.
And we can go ahead and add in more detail on the hips.
So and maybe a little bit more detail on the hands.
So that's a very quick and basic way to draw the form.
Let's try doing the male form really quick with our three dimensional shapes.
So many go ahead and start by drawing the head.
I find that the head is usually the best thing to start drawing.
And then I like to move down the body.
So next about it is I'll go ahead and find my chest shape so my chest is just going to be a rectangular
shape.
So remember that men tend to be a lot more square than women.
And then he sort of turns.
So what we want to do is we want to add a little bit of a twist to this square right there like so now
we'll go ahead and add in this leg right here so go ahead.
Sketchiness cylinder do the same thing for down here for this part of the leg.
The calf could sketch that shape and then I can go ahead and scratch in the foot
don't say go ahead and do this back legs so I'll go ahead and and that cylinder.
And then I can go in and finish it behind that's part of the leg and then only go ahead and add in the
calf part and then I'll add in that last foot which is basically a box.
I like to just break it up into a simple sort of body shape like so and then I'll go ahead and add in
the arm.
So at this cylinder right here
having this cylinder here.
And I can add in the hand.
And so the hand is just going to be a very basic little sketch of the thumb and the fingers.
You can spend more time on that and I'm trying to sketch this in really quickly.
And later you can come back and add more detail than I want to go ahead and add in the other arm.
So the other arm starts right there it's just a cylinder.
And then we'll go ahead and add the second part of the arm.
Now go ahead and add the hand.
So the hand is just going to be a basic box shaped like so in the morning go ahead and add in the thumb
and we can add in all the other fingers too.
We can actually just make that one sort of shape just like so and if you wanted to you can go ahead
and shape that head out a little bit more here and there.
But the idea behind this is you want to start looking at the body in the form as simple shapes.
And once you can start breaking them down into simple shapes drawing humans out of your head is going
to be much much easier.
You're going to have a much better understanding of human form.
Another thing is that if you don't understand human form it's going to be very difficult for you to
drop things like animated characters that still have bodies but they're going to be more exaggerated
skinnier in some areas more elongated in other areas.
And if you don't understand how the real body form works you're not going to be able to draw images
like that.
So it's really important that you study the body form.
So your assignment for this lecture is to go ahead and find some reference images or use the ones that
you used in the previous lecture and go ahead and try to redraw those drawings.
But using these simple shapes so first do the one where you use actual three dimensional form the cylinders
and the square shapes and the cubes.
And then I want you to go ahead and try drawing a really quick figure using this technique where we
first find the chest and then the pelvis and I find that the spine.
And then we find the shoulders and then we add in the light in bolts for the arms and the legs.
And then we add in our head.
I want you to go ahead and experiment with that and practice and once you get one that you think looks
really good go ahead and post that to the Q and A section of the Course or the Facebook page.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.